the same time there's more research and so the aim
is switch that way. Yes I think I think a lot of our
students are prepared more particularly since
they put in more math and you have a stronger
pre-vet requirements and that calculus and I
think I've had several graduate courses calculus
I just learned to make a summation sign and wrote in
memory as far as I was concerned. I checked out a
book, Calculus Made Easy, but it didn't look too
easy. I always liked math, but that's one reason I
advise some of the top students to take math. Well,
there's one in Florida now and has a PhD and he's
doing research work in toxicology when he was a
senior. R.A. Junior, I advised him to take
calculus, and he took, made two A's. And in the two,
I think it was 201, 202 then, made A's in both
semesters of calculus. He loved that math. But now
it's a requirement. As far as the students are
concerned, Back when you started vet school,
there were just a handful of students that
applied. Now there's 600 a year that are applying
to try to get into A&M vet school. How can you count
for this tremendous increase in applications?
Why is there so much interest?
I don't know. One thing amazed me, why the interest
in the women? I never would have thought that women
would have become so interested in it. Some of them
were quite successful. Well, that leads to
another thing. In 1963, the very first woman was
admitted to the vet school. She was a good one, too.
Yeah. Now, one-third of the student body over
there is women. A lot of faculty members are women.
Let's talk about the women in the vet school. How
did this come about? Why did they admit her?
I don't know exactly why they admitted them,
because they had applications.
Dean French came here from, I think he was in the
chemistry department at
VPI, Virginia Polytechnic. And he was the dean of
the graduate school here, and recommended, oh, we
had some splendid students from Virginia who came
here in veterinary medicine. And when he got his
influence, when he had been here for several
years, we could see that the quality dropped
because he screened them. And I'd say of all the
Virginia students we had, I had only one mediocre
to poor student. He had a hard time getting a C. But
after that, well, we didn't have any more Virginia
students. And
I think Dean French's attitude, he left here and
went to Washington State and straightened out
that institution. I don't know. He's probably
retired now. But
he, I think, helped us. He criticized us.
of not looking on ourselves as a graduate school, a
professional school. And he even thought that
perhaps we should have, be governed by a different
formula for evaluation for appropriations. And I
think he helped our morale a lot. And not the dean,
probably the dean, got him to talk to us for that
reason. I don't recall which dean it was at the
time. I
think the student is much better qualified now and
to go into more things. And I think that's one
reason that these better students are screened to
get in. Some of them have master's degrees. Some of
them have PhD degrees. Well, what about the women,
though? Well, there are more openings for
veterinary medicine now, particularly, say, in
the case of medical school. You usually have
somebody who has to take care of the animal colony,
and frequently they'll have a veterinarian on the
staff at the medical school.
who used to be in pathology, and I think he was an
Oklahoma product, but he went from here to the
Philippines, I think, then came back. He's
on the staff of the medical school in San Antonio
University, Texas Medical School, but he's a
veterinarian.
But we've had some capable women, too, and they
have gotten into The man has more opportunities, I
think, in so far as going to things. When women
came, when women started back in 63, did you notice
any, was there any resistance not to let women in,
or was there any problems with the women? Do you
remember anything like that? Or were they
generally accepted right away? I would like to
think that there were isolated cases. I know when
Sonia came in in 63. What was her last name?
Oliphant, O-L-I-P-H-A-N-T. She was from a small
town between San Antonio and the border, or
between San Antonio and Edinburgh, somewhere in
there.
But she was interested in large animals, horses,
and I remember one truck came in with some a cow and a
calf. And there's some great big old boys in that
class, and Sonia's a small person, I guess, I don't
know, Sonia was about five, five, something like
this, and weighed about 145 or 150, and she went in
there and picked that calf out, put him in her arms,
and knew what to do with it. And there was an old boy
standing around, you know, and she just went in
there. I had never heard of any adverse criticism
of that girl because she was good all around.
Some of the girls that I had were rather mediocre.
Sonya was good. And then I happened to hit two or
three mediocre ones, and I'd find a real good one.
What do you think their overall quality was
compared to the men? Oh, it's much better now than
back in those days. But I mean, generally, are they
about the same quality as the male students back in
the mid-'60s?
I'd say this insofar as the last class I taught in
67,
I think I had three or five, I don't recall. I would
say offhand that the average male was better than
the average
woman. I wouldn't say they weren't misfits, but
those girls
had a pretty hard time, some of them. And some of the
students that perhaps didn't like them and made
life pretty miserable. But they had to get it the
hard way. I think that would be true almost
anything. And probably other classes too on the
campus. I recall
when Mr. Rudder was in Washington, when they
decided to take in one summer school, to open it up
to the female. I guess that was probably in, when
did they open up to the entire school? I was within
63, but they didn't allow women in general. That
was at a veterinary school. In the mid-60s, yeah.
Yeah, but when they did, Mr. Rutter was in
Washington on business for the college, the
university then. And he complimented the, when he
came back, he complimented the academic council
on the way we handled taking in the women. And...
The battalion was filled with editorials and with
letters from students objecting to the girls. Oh,
my, they were fighting them. They just didn't want
to. My oldest son, who's with the university now in
executive development, when he heard it from me,
about
the way we voted in academic council. President
Morgan had finished all the agenda for the day. And
someone, he says, anything else? And someone
said, how in order to protect women? He said, well,
he says, let's take a straw vote. I said, I'd just
like to. I think there were 54 or 56 of us. Every one
of us held up a hand. And I was home, and my oldest son
told me, he said, how in the world could you vote for
something like that? Because he was an old laggy.
And that was, he was out through school. He
finished in 52. He said, how in the world? He was in
the Air Force. He says, how could you vote for
something like that? He says, what in the world
will A&M come to? And he had two classes, taught two
classes, and had a bunch of girls in each one. He
didn't pay any attention to it now. He just became a
part of it. But I think that's one of the best things
that college ever did, was make it co-ed. Sure. In
the vet school, what impact, in your opinion, was
there an impact or were there any changes because
they let women into the vet school? Not that I know
of. Not that I know of. I just knew of cases where
they'd tell me that particular girls were having a
pretty rough time with some of the students. And
most of the girls that they were talking about,
they were mediocre students. They weren't
superiors to them. But I never heard of one adverse
criticism of Sonia. She was a lady, a young lady,
and she
caused no trouble whatsoever that I ever knew of.
She was more interested in large animals, the boy
she married. He was about two, wasn't he? But he was
a grade later. And she worked for the microbiology
department for a year after she got her degree,
until he got his degree. He was interested in small
animals, and she was interested in large animals.
But that's the way they were brought up. Now, I have
about two more final questions. And one deals with
why? Can you tell me the story behind why you wrote
the history? Well, I wouldn't say it was pressure.
I had a chance to turn it down. I did it first.
But I had just recently read Dr. Williams' history
of Harry Long. Oh, T. Harry Williams, yeah. Yeah,
of LSU. And that's an excellent book. That
certainly is, isn't it? And I got interested in how
he had that documented. He did a lot of oral
histories. T. Harry Williams did a lot of oral
histories. He did. But I talked to the head of the
department over here and he said, oh yes, he's a
visiting lecturer. He said he's an outstanding
historian.
Yeah, unfortunately he died just recently, a few
months ago, during the last year. But
I got interested in that and the way it was handled
and
when it was at McMurray's farewell party, I don't
recall that year, exact year, but We were in the
veterinary library,
and Dean
Shelton walked up to me. I always called him
George. I had him as a student. And we got to
talking, and then Wally Bay walked up. And George
says, we're interested in getting somebody to
write a history of veterinary medicine. said,
what, do you have any recommendation? I said, yes.
Al Price is a man you want. And they laughed, both of
them laughed, and I knew they were in cahoots. So,
they said, no, we want you to do it. And I said, why
not Al? He said, well, He's been on top of it, and
he's afraid he couldn't treat it objectively. I
said, let me think about it.
And so I don't know whether I called him the next day
or the second day or third day, and I finally told
him I'd take it. But I was happy that I did, because I
got to visit with Well, I visited every
department, and Maurer helped me on the research
part. There were a lot of people that had to say so.
In fact, all of them read it, passed around, read
it. And they improved it. Because I didn't touch
all the bases, and
I remember Al Price. I didn't take it to Al. I wish I
had. Because he looked at it, after it was all
finished, he says, very good, but see, you didn't
put everything in. I said, goodness alive, who
could? I said, if there's anything left out, why in
the world did you leave it out of your annual
reports? I said, I think I've touched pretty well
all the bases in the annual reports. But
I had It was passed back to me and said I had too much
on the extension. And he says, try to condense
that. And I said, well, about a half or a third. I
condensed it down to one third and saved some
space.
But I enjoyed doing it. And then one thing that I
decided After I found out there were so many PhDs
and so many masters in there,
Dean Shelton's request was that he'd like a list of
all the PhDs. I said, well, why not the masters? He
says, well, he says, if you ought to do it. So then
Doug goes up. And the main thing, before I got
through, I don't know whether I thought I had
spoken out of turn. Because one individual was
listed in three, having received a master's
degree in three departments.
They cleaned him. And I knew what department had
him. And it turned out that physiology. I knew he
had taken physiology. But two other departments
had him. So I finally went to him and asked him. And
he told me what it was in. And what happened was that
the secretaries, I asked each head of the
department, they went through and these theses,
dissertations, were all filed in that. And they
could have several copies made. And so these other
two departments had a copy of that thesis. And
that's the way it happened. But I had to watch that,
and I thought,
I was afraid that I'd leave somebody out. So I went
to the graduate office and went through that file
to see, get a check, but I didn't pick up any. But
I said, if I make one of commission, It wouldn't be
so bad, but I said, if I only met one person, I'm
going to catch it. And I should. But
one of the first ones I handed, handed one of these
out. He says, I found an arrow. And I said, what's
the problem more? He said, I don't have a
bachelor's degree. I said, doggone it, you better
be listed in there somewhere. I said, that's
either in one of the catalogs, the A&M Journal
catalog. I said, that's not of my thinking. In
fact, he's in the physiology department right
now. But he said, he got his
DVM. a master's and his PhD at Iowa State. And never
had a bachelor's degree. And no bachelor's. And so
he said, I don't know. I said, well, suppose you did
have one and you had left it out. I said, that's what
had hurt me. I said, well, it didn't hurt me having
that thing on me. And I said, I didn't put anybody's
degree in there unless I found it listed
somewhere, even in the general catalog. are in the
departments. And I said, I've checked and
double-checked that. And I said, to me, that's a
minor part. And he laughed about it.
I have one final question, and that concerns your
career at A&M. How would you analyze or how would
you summarize your career at A&M?
A happy experience. A happy experience.
If I had to do it over again, I'd probably make the
same mistakes. I'd hope that I wouldn't, but...
Were there some major mistakes that you thought
that you made? Not that I know of, but... How about
accomplishments? Well, I know I came to the
crossroads of, in the...
Oh, in the thirties, I think, as to whether I would
concentrate and get all this work together. The
early thirties, in fact, is when it happened. And
get a Ph.D. or go on and take these specialized
courses. I did one course in the top physiologists
of the country, and that was in his department.
A.J. Carlson's Department of Physiology at the
University of Chicago, and I wanted some work on
one of the top physiological chemistry
departments, and that was at the University of
Chicago. And the Kochs, Dr. and Mrs. Koch, both
were in the department. They were both in Europe
that summer, but I got the work on Gustafson, who
later was chancellor at Nebraska, and then later
was went with the Ford Company, Ford Foundation,
and was considered as the president when Tom
Harrington was made president here. And his name
is, I said, is that R.A.G. of Colorado and
University of Chicago fans? He said, yes. And I
said, he's the top man. I said, that's the best
teacher, one of the best teachers I've ever had. I
said, he made chemistry look very easy to me. And I
said, I didn't tell them, but one of the best exams I
ever stood, I think, was on that course under him,
because he was par excellence as an instructor.
But they say he was too old. I happened to be on the
committee, the president's committee, for the
selection of the president. And I think he was 54 at
the time we met him. I think there was one
representative from each one of the schools, and
Gib Giltrus was chancellor, and Fred Jensen was
chemistry, and I don't recall, Godbey was in
agriculture, I don't recall the others.
So you took these short courses then? Yes, and as
some of them said, I know
there was an endocrinologist here, not an
endocrinologist, but, I
can't dispel now, but he said, you're making a
mistake, says, you're going, what if you get fired
one of these days? I said, well, I'll go back to my
first love and this practice. And I says, I'm not
worried about that. He says, if I'm not good enough
for the teacher here, why? I don't care. So I said, I
think at the time, I'd be doing that. But if I had to
go over again, I might. As things have developed, I
might concentrate and and work on a PhD. But at the
time I thought I did the best, better of the two
because I wasn't degree-minded at the time. And
you think it was the best choice for you in the long
run? Yes. I wouldn't take anything for that
experience with Dr. Pymal. Did you ever think
about leaving A&M? Did you ever think of another
alternative, another university?
No, when I retired in 67, I had a chance of going to
Iowa State for a year, but that was because their
man in Farmer College came here. I had nothing to do
with thinking this, because I was a very good
friend of the head of the department up there, and
by his own choice, he had written down here
something. He wanted to come to Texas for some
reason, and so we ended up having their
pharmacology instructor.
So I was going to fill in for a year and I turned it
down. I said no, I'd rather not. So I was ready for a
rest.
Well thanks, thank you very much for this
interview. Is there anything that you think we
should talk about that I missed? No, I think
perhaps I've mentioned some things I shouldn't.
Then you can edit them out. Thank you very much.